thus the heavens and the earth and all
the host of them were finished and on
the seventh day God ended his work which
he had done and he rested on the seventh
day from all his work which he had done
then God blessed the seventh day and
sanctified it because in it he rested
from all his work which God had created
and made this is the history of the
heavens and the earth when they were
created in the day that the Lord God
made the earth and the heavens before
any plant of the field was in the earth
and before any herb of the field had
grown for the Lord God had not caused it
to rain on the earth and there was no
man to till the ground but a mist went
up from the earth and watered the whole
face of the ground
and the Lord God formed man of the dust
of the ground and breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life and man
became a living being the Lord God
planted a garden eastward in Eden and
there he put the man whom he had formed
and out of the ground the Lord God made
every tree grow that is pleasant to the
sight and good for food The Tree of Life
was also in the midst of the garden and
the tree of knowledge of good and evil
now a river went out of Eden to water
the garden and from there it parted and
became four river heads the name of the
first is passion it is the one which
skirts the whole land of havilah where
there is gold and the gold of that land
is good bdellium and the Onyx stone are
there the name of the second river is
gijón it is the one which goes around
the whole land of cush the name of the
third river is hid again it is the one
which goes toward the east of assyria
the fourth River is the Euphrates then
the Lord God took the man and put him in
the Garden of Eden to tend and keep it
and the Lord God commanded the man of
every tree of the garden you may freely
eat but of the tree of the knowledge of
good and evil you shall not eat for in
the day that you eat of it you shall
surely die
it is not good that man should be alone
I will make him a helper comparable to
him out of the ground the Lord God
formed every beast of the field and
every bird of the air and brought them
to Adam to see what he would call them
and whatever Adam called each living
creature that was its name
so Adam gave names to all cattle to the
birds of the air and to every beast of
the field but for Adam there was not
found a helper comparable to him and the
Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on
Adam II and he slept
and he took one of his ribs and closed
up the flesh in its place then the rib
which the Lord God had taken from the
man he made into a woman and he brought
him to the man this is now bone of my
bones and flesh of my flesh she shall be
called woman because she was taken out
of man rare for a man shall leave his
father and mother and be joined to his
wife and they shall become one flesh and
they were both naked the man and his
wife and were not ashamed